---
layout: page
title: "Q36953: Warning C1015 May be Caused by Lack of Available File Handles"
permalink: /pubs/pc/reference/microsoft/kb/Q36953/
---

	Article: Q36953
	Product: Microsoft C
	Version(s): 5.10   | 5.10
	Operating System: MS-DOS | OS/2
	Flags: ENDUSER |
	Last Modified: 11-JAN-1990
	
	Compiler error C1015, which is not documented in the text, is often
	caused by an error finding or opening an include file. This new error
	message is noted in the C Version 5.10 file ERRMSG.DOC.
	
	This error can occur if the INCLUDE environment variable has
	not been set correctly for your include file directory or the TMP
	variable is set to a Ram Disk.
	
	Especially under DOS, this error also can be generated by not having
	enough file handles available. (A file handle is an integer used by
	the operating system to keep track of every open file.) The number of
	file handles available to DOS can be increased from the default of
	eight to a number up to 20 (or higher with some OEM adaptations of
	MS-DOS versions later than Version 3.20) by placing the following line
	in CONFIG.SYS and rebooting your computer:
	
	FILES=20
	
	It  has been reported that if you do not set files above the default
	of eight, error C1015 appears soon after compilation begins. Setting
	files to 20 corrects the problem.
	
	File handles will typically be used during compilation and linkage by
	the CL driver, the compiler passes, your C source code file, include
	files, the linker, libraries, and temporary files created by the
	compiler or linker.
	
	Closing a file makes its handle available to the operating system
	again, so the lack of available file handles refers to the number of
	files open at any one time.
