---
layout: page
title: "Q35303: Using PRINT SCREEN Key to Print CGA Graphics"
permalink: /pubs/pc/reference/microsoft/kb/Q35303/
---

## Q35303: Using PRINT SCREEN Key to Print CGA Graphics

	Article: Q35303
	Version(s): 5.00 5.10
	Operating System: MS-DOS
	Flags: ENDUSER |
	Last Modified: 27-OCT-1988
	
	To print graphics generated by a C program using the PRINT SCREEN key,
	you must first install GRAPHICS.COM (supplied by your DOS). This
	process only will work with the CGA modes. Hercules, EGA, and VGA modes
	will not print with this method; you must obtain a third party, public
	domain, or shareware program to print graphics from these modes.
	
	In the DOS environment, PRINT SCREEN prints any text screen to an
	attached printer hooked to PRN. This function isn't able to interpret
	a graphic screen to the printer because a graphic screen is defined
	and produced differently than a text screen.
	
	A unit of area is defined by a pixel rather than a character. (This
	can be noticed by the way a text screen is described "80 columns by 25
	rows" as opposed to a graphics screen "640 pixels by 200 pixels.")
	
	DOS supplies a TSR that allows the PRINT SCREEN to interpret a graphic
	screen. This is called GRAPHICS.COM. When it is installed, it will
	interpret a CGA graphic screen to a printer attached to PRN. This
	utility must be installed before running a C program that draws a
	graphic screen in the CGA modes, i.e., the program must have specified
	a _setvideomode to _MRES4COLOR, _MRESNOCOLOR, or _HRESBW. Any of the
	other video modes will require some other utility to interpret the
	screen for the printer.
	
	It also should be noted that GRAPHICS.COM was written to write to an
	IBM Personal Graphics or IBM Personal Color Printer. It may be
	necessary on some other printers to set some switch settings, if
	available, to emulate either of these printers. The printer manual for
	the specific printer should be consulted in these cases.
