---
layout: page
title: "Q60859: Vectored Fonts Not Usable in BASIC PDS 7.00"
permalink: /pubs/pc/reference/microsoft/kb/Q60859/
---

## Q60859: Vectored Fonts Not Usable in BASIC PDS 7.00

	Article: Q60859
	Version(s): 7.00 7.10
	Operating System: MS-DOS
	Flags: ENDUSER | SR# S900408-2 bit map
	Last Modified: 21-SEP-1990
	
	The font files MODERN.FON, SCRIPT.FON, and ROMAN.FON from Microsoft
	Windows/286 and Microsoft Windows/386 cannot be used with the
	Microsoft BASIC Professional Development System (PDS) version 7.00 or
	7.10 font toolbox.
	
	The "Microsoft BASIC 7.0: Language Reference" manual correctly states
	on Page 518 that the font toolbox supplied with BASIC PDS 7.00 works
	with any standard Windows bitmap .FON file. However, the files
	MODERN.FON, SCRIPT.FON, and ROMAN.FON are vectored fonts, not
	bitmapped fonts. The BASIC PDS font toolbox will use the rest of the
	fonts supplied with Windows/286 or Windows/386 without any problem.
	
	The difference between bitmapped and vectored fonts is that bitmapped
	fonts are fixed in size and shape. To get a different-sized font, you
	must use a different bitmap for each character. Vectored fonts, also
	called scalable or resizeable fonts, are actually made up of
	instructions for drawing the different characters. As a result, you
	can easily resize the figures.
	
	The same .FON files are supplied with Windows/286 and Windows/386.
	
	The message "Bad Font File" will be generated by the BASIC PDS font
	toolbox if it cannot use a specific font.
